1. Virtual machines / (compute)
2. SQL Server and SQL Database
3. App services
	REST API 
	MVC app
	Angular 
4. Storage Account / Storage service
	Disk 

	offerings
		1.
		Blob storage (Binary large objects) - v1 storage
		
		Datalake storage (storage for binaries - but it will perform data analytics on the data
			as well as create index for faster search on the data) - V2 

			2 types again
			Hot - for the content which needs frequent access
			Cold - for the backups, old data needs infrequent access\


			blob/datalake			
				containers
					files
					folders
						files
						subfolder

		2. File Share
			if we want to share a folder with everyone in network, at office we use to have
			a shared folder
			Problem : 
			1. shareing will be possible only in same network, how about ppl in different 				network
			2. network understanding for Linux and mac machines are different
		Solution :this was problematic, this microsoft now allows us to create a shared folder over 			  HTTP

		3. Tables
		problem : for storing and quering the data, we need a table
				for which we need a database, for which we need a server (database server)
			 we want to store images, videos, also NoSQL data (json documents)

		Solution: with storage account, you can now create a table, which is flexible
		stores the data in key/value pair
			where key is a unique value and value can be anything (img,data, video, json)
			you can still query the same using sql language

		4. Queues
			eg. for online food processing (Zomato)
			

	users - developers works with a tool Azure storage explorer - free tool for all the OS
		clients are also given access to storage and they do not need azure subscription as well 		for the same
	how to create and share the tokens to users - SAS token
	SAS - Shared Access Signature - allows access to only limited resources 
		you can also setup a time line for access - from 18-Dec-24 to 25-Dec-24 after this token 		will expire

		we create such tokens and share it with the users / other developers / clients and 			customers, so that they can design their applications in angular/java/.net etc..
		and they want to access files/images/videos etc from our storage 
		This will need
		Enable storage account key access = true


		
-------------------------
	we created a private container and we added a 2 ppt file to it - AITooling and RDBMS
	
	1. Give access to AITooling file to some people only - read only access
		give access only for 2 hrs - 8Dec2024 - 12:00PM to 2:00PM
	2. Give access to both the files to 1 of the customer - they are a part of ppts container
	3. give access to entire container - read only
	4. give access to whole container - total control 
	5. give access to entire blob (which may have multiple containers)


	all of this can be achived by createing the SAS token 
		you can creaete sas token at file level, folder level, container level and blob level

	












			
