Cloud - Technology

1. On Demand
2. Limited Period 
		Right now on Amazon - 20CR 
		request to server every minute - 20 lakhs 
			Thus they have a setup to handle - 60 lakhs request every minute

			Problem : during festive season / launch of new product
				during this time, request per minute crosses 80/90 lakhs 

		thus servers are not able to face this requirement

		thus for this, they will have to add new hardware
			buy new HW (huge investment) - 4 times to handle 80 lakhs request PM - 320 
				This means a very high hardware, we pay depreciation, maintenance, 			electricity, man power etc...

		thus why not have a solution on demand and for a time they need, remotely, anywhere in the
		world

3. have services for which they are not expert, AI ML services today, team at UST wants to come up with a POC





Thus the idea of Remote hardware on demand for limited period as per need came up 

in which they opened data centers - real big and huge, with tons of hardware and share it over internet
	this hardware will have support for more and more service


	so cloud is a technology to demand any service (hardware/software) both for required time

	This services are categorised in 3 categories

		1. SAAS - Software as a service 
				create any solution as a software - eg. db server, virtual machine
		2. PASS - Platform as a service - gives you a platform made up of software installed
				and you can put ur solutions on this
				(create a web server and host website from any technology)
		3. IAAS - Infrastructure as a service
				buy the hardware
	--------------- easy way to understand and remember this 
		SAAS - order a food on demand - Zomato (you do not have control on quality)
		     - walk into a restaurant and order from wide variety - you do not have control on how 			it is been cooked
			problem - control, quality 
	
		PASS - you get home food everyday 
			- control or over the quality

		IAAS  - buy your own vegetables and cook it you self
				you take care and control of quality 
	---- SAAS is a shared kitchen 
	---- PAAS is a kitchen at home, but you do not cook, you get served by a family member
	---- IAAS 100% control
		--IAC (with devops) - Infrastructure as a code


	Types of cloud

	Public - Azure, Amazon, GCP
	Private - our own data center
	Hybrid - half solution on own data center and half on cloud

	------------------------------------------
	IAC - create or deploy a complete solution using a config file (.json or .yml)
	Eg. config file to create a virtual machine for us
		name of the machine	
		OS
		Hardware
		Security 
		Username, password
		pre-installed software

	everything mentioned a config file (submition time is 1/2 seconds)

	we submit / upload this config file to some service running in a data center
		also what if you need 20 such machines
	also provide info in the file to shut down machines at 6:OO PM everyday and auto start at 8:45 everyday

----------------- we will learn this on Microsoft Azure
	where we get 200+ services accoss 300+ data centers across the world
		India has 3 data centers (West - Nagpur)
					  South  - Chennai 
					  Center - Delhi/gurgoan)

		eg. for most of the users which are from UK, it will be a great idea to host a website in UK data center

----------you need a subscription to work on cloud and you end up adding a credit card to it

	but for a training, participants cannot be asked to use their credit card

	Thus Microsoft provides us a subscription bound to time and value 

-------------How do you connect to data center and work with the services

		1. https://www.portal.azure.com - using a browser
		2. Azure CLI (available for all the OS) -needs to be downloaded and installed
			and then you will login using a command
				az login 
		3. Azure powershell (for running the scripts)
		4. Cloudshell (this is powershell built into the azure portal)

------------ We use ARM templates for automation / Infrastructure as a code
		ARM template is in JSON format - JSON files

		this arm template can be used for scripting (powershell scripting) to run a loop for create multiple machines
		eg. 20 machines
















































